===== PAGE 0 =====
"All the News \\ Eืbeateu Hlork


THE WEATHER
Today, sun and clouds, warmer, a bit
more humid, high 85. Tonight, partly more humid, high 85 . Tonight, partly
cloudy, warm, low 70. Tomorrow,
partly partly sunny, very warm, humid,
high 88 . Weather map, Page D8.


An injured Russian soldier in January at a hospital in Bakhmut, Ukraine, close to the front lines. The soldier survived and was evacuated to Rostov in Russia.

Chechen Units Fight for Russia, ASign of Shifting Ethnic Bonds


Will Lewis, the Washingto Post's publisher, in 2023.

Pregnant, Addicted, and Finally Receiving Help


Kim Short has struggled with drug use since her teens, and relapsed after her first baby's birth.

NEWS ANALYSIS
Gaza 'Pause'
Was Tailored
For 2 Camps
Prioritizing Aid to U.S., Fighting to the Israelis

By ISABEL KERSHNER JERUSALEM - The an-
ouncement came seemingly out of the blue on Sunday when it
was first publicized via the Iswas first publicized via the Is-
raeli military's English and Araraeli mittary's English and Ara-
bic-language channels: The
military would "pause" its fight-
 ing during daytime hours along
an important humanitarian aid corridor in southern Gaza until further notice.
Amid some immediate confu-
sion over the scope of the pause sion over the scope of the pause,
a clarification swiftly followed,
this tice in Hebrew and seem a clarification swirtly and seem-
this time in Hebrew and
ingly for domestic consumption. ingly for domestic consumption.
The change did not mean a cesThe change did not mean a ces-
sation of fighting in the southern
Gaza Strip that statement said adding that the campaign in the southernmost city of Rafah was
continuing. Military officials said
the daily pauses were meant the daily pauses were meant
only to facilitate the increased
distribution of food aid in Gaz only to facilitate the increased
distribution of food aid in Gaza,
where international organizawhere international organiza-
tions have issued dire warnings about hunger.
The strange The strange choreography of
the messaging became stranger still when the government sug-
gested that Prime Minister gested that Prime Minister Ben-
jamin Netanyahu only learned of jamin Netanyahu only learned
the military's plan from news reports and signaled his disap-
proval. proval.
But analysts said it was likely But analysts said it was likely
that the prime minister was
aware of the plan and that each announcement was tailored to
different audiences. The whipdifferent audiences. The whip-
saw statements appeared to saw statements appeared to
reflect the competing pressures facing Mr. Netanyahu, as he uggles demands from the Biden
administration and elsewhere around the globe with those of around the globe with those of
his own hawkish government. His far-right coalition partners oppose any concessions in Gaza,
and he relies on their support to and he relies on
stay in power.
The new policy surrounding the humanitarian corridor -
where the military said it wou where the military said it would
pause fighting from 8 a.m. until 7 pause fighting from 8 a.m. until
p.m. daily - went into effect on Saturday, according to military
officials. But Mr. Netanyahu officials. But Mr. Netanyahu
insinuated that he did not learn of the plans until Sunday morn-
ing. "It's classic Bibi," said Amos Harel, the military affairs analys
or the left-leaning Haaretz newspaper, referring to Mr. Netanyahu by his nickname.
Like other experts, he said the Like other experts, he said the
announcement was unlikely to
have been a announcement was unikely to
have been a complete surprise to
him, even if the military comhim, even if the military com-
manders did not update him on manders did not update him on
the exact timing of what they called a tactical change. "He has a mask for every occasion," Mr. Harel said in an
interview. "For the Americans, he needs to show he is doing, more to get aid in. For the Israe
audience he can say 'I didn't know' and go for plausible denia Continued on Page A6

RROTESTS Pro-Palestinian students in Belgium are adopting a more peaceful approach. PAGE A4

June Is the Month When Hopes Surge and Olympic Dreams Die By SCOTt CACCIOLA Before the Olympics even be-
gin, there is always heartbreak. gin, there is always heartbreak.
And June may be the hardest And June may
month of all.
Caitlin Clark, the ascendan star of women's basketball, just found out that she won't be going
to Paris. So did Bill May, whose to Paris. So did Bill May, whose
hopes of becoming the first man to to Paris. Socoming the first man to
hopes of becage - will see their dreams of
compete at the Olympics in the
competing at the Paris Olympics
U.S. Trials Test Minds pashed by the U.S. selection committee. Over the next few weeks, hundreds more athletes - swimmers
and sprinters, divers and tumblers, many of whom have spent ears training with the singular goal of representing Team U.S.A.
as Well as Bodies
palverized to a fine dust. That's because the U.S. trials in sports like swimming, gymnastics
and track and field might just be the fiercest crucibles of all, with a
ruthless requirement for Olympic
berths: Perfor
staying home.
At the US. which are 10 -day sield trials of joy and sorrow that starts on riday in Eugene, Ore., the top ualify for Paris each event wil thletes have met the Olympic tandard. So, even for someone Conti . ontinued on Page A12

INTERNATIONAL A4-10

Green Parties Chastened Europe's climate change-minded par-
ties performed poorly in the European ties performed poorly in the European
Union elections, leaving the continent's green agenda in peril

Pope's Slur Awakens Pride An L.G.B.T.Q. march in Rome on Saturday turned an insult used by Francis
into a point of honor.

OBITUARIES B7-8

A Shaper of TV and Movies Martin Starger helped ABC rise, and produced award winners like "Roots"

NATIONAL A11-17
A Halt Felt Nationwide The governor of New York's decision to
pause congestion pricing in Manhattan pause congestion pricing in Manhattan
is likely to stall similar initiatives in other cities.

Readying for a Hostile Debate With Donald J. Trump's rampage in 2020 still fresh in mind, his campaign, CNN and President Biden are prepar-
ing in different ways.

Woes in Anti-Abortion Camp After a week that highlighted its strug gles, the movement seeks a path for-
ward: "Is the goal the absolute abolition
of abortion in our nation?"

ARTS C1-6
Now Playing: The Press Tour For Jennifer Lopez and other stars, the
conventional movie publicity blitz has conventional movie publicity blitz has
become very unpredictable.

An Artist's Baltimore Joyce J. Scott uses humor as much as ar to open up conversations about race and
inequality in her hometown. PAGE C


SPORTS DI-8
Sudden Shift in N.F.L.'s Hiring After years of decline, the number of
Black head coaches in the league douled in the off-season.

Redefining a Troubling Past The Olympiastadion in Berlin will host the fina of Euro 2024. Bitter used it for
the 1936 Summer Olympics. PAGES D4-5
