===== PAGE 0 =====
of new stipulations in late July to
American, Egyptian and American, Egyptian and Qatari
mediators that added less flexible had made in late May. Doubts have also been raised
about Hamas's willingness to compromise on key issues, and
the group requested its own ex-
tensive revisions throughout the tensive revisions throughout the
process, while ceding some smaller points in July. On Tuesday, Ah-
mad Abdul-Hadi, a Hamas official, said the group would not be par-
ticipating in a new round of negotiations set to take place in Doha,
Qatar, or Cairo on Thursday But the documents reviewed by
The Times make clear that the be hind-the-scenes maneuvering by the Netanyahu government has that agreement may be elusive at
the talks set to begin this week Among other conditions, the diators shortly before a summit in
Rome on July 28 , suggested tha Israeli forces should remain in control of Gaza's southern borde
a detail that was not included in Is adetail that was not inctuded in Is-
rael's proposal in May. It also
showed less flexibility about allowing displaced Palestinians to Continued on Page A9


By ANDREW E. KRAMER SUDZHA, Russia - All that re-
mained of a Russian border post was a tableau of destruction: Sheet metal flapped in the wind,
customs declarations fluttered about, and stray dogs roamed under a road-spanning sign that
said "Russia" said, "Russia." Kicking up dust, Ukrainian ar-
mored vehicles rumbled past mored venicles rumbled past, un-
impeded, as the flow of men and weaponry carried on in the biggest foreign incursion into Russia
since World War II, an offensive since World War II, an offensive
now nearing the end of its first now nearing the end of its first
week since the breach of the border here in Sudzha and at several other sites.
At the cro At the crossing point, a Ukrainwaved at the forces passing by, days after Russia's head of the general staff declared th
tack had been rebuffed.

Surprise Counterattack the Largest Incursion Since World War II

At the border, the detritus of osing battle - and signs of so
diers caught by surprise - wer scattered about: bullet cartridges
tinkled underfoot, discarded body Taking the fight to Rus. was a weighty moment for Ukraine in its war with Russia
coming two and a half years after ussia launched a full-scale inva Russia launched a full-scale inva-
sion and 10 years after Russia in ervened militarily to seize terri ory and support separatist clien Within the first month of the
war, Uriaine did strike back with
a cross-border helicopter assault and has regularly bombarded
with a fleet of homemade dro Two smaller, earlier forays into
Russia by Russian exile groups backed by the Ukrainian Army ended in quick retreats.
But until last week, Ukraine
forces had not counterattacked forces hud
into Russia.
Ukrainian troops sliced easily through a thinly defended border, pushing tens of miles into Russia
and shifting the narrative of the war after a glum year in which Ukraine had struggled, often in
vain, to hold back Russian advain, to hold back Russian ad-
vances across its eastern front. By Monday, Ukraine's com-
manding general had told President Volodymyr Zelensky that his
troops held 390 square miles of troops held 390 square miles of Kursk region. Two dozen settlements were overrun
"I'm happy to be riding a tank
into Russia, and it is better than Continued on Page A8

An American Gem Desperately Needs a Home. It's 990 Feet Long.
By JESSE PESTA
PHILADELPHIA -

PHILADELPHIA
Gibbs needs to find a spot, fast. And not just any park ing , fpot will do.
It needs to be
cean liner. It's for a ship bigger than the Titanic, one that is nearly as long as
the Chrysler Building is tall. A ship so luxurious that it was the
first choice of presidents and roy first choice of presidents and roy
alty. A ship so trusted that it once carried the Mona Lisa. A vessel so fast that its mammoth propellers, churning the sea beneath its
grand promenades and shipboard orchestras, were a Cold War state A ship named the United States that Ms. Gibbs has come to adore.
In fact, she has dedicated her life to saving it. Ms. Gibbs's grandfather mous ship designer, and the
United States was his masterwork. But remarkably, she knew
almost nothing about that until
sheoratil she was well into adulthood.
"This, I would not have pres dicted," I whe said not recently about
being responsible for a rusty steamship. Ms. Gibbs, 62 , works in Wash-
ington at a private foundation where her primary focus is eradicating genital cutting of women.
Between that and her advocacy or the ship, she noted, "Peopl
must be so confused by my socia media presence."

 A few days ago she drove from where the United States is docked on the Delaware River. There, she
would attend an important meeting of the small nonnrofit group
she heads, the S.S. United States Conservancy, which owns the
ship. I joined her for the drive.

To Ease Anger At Gaza Policy

By JONATHAN WEISMAN
Thousands of demonstrat Thousands of demonstrators
are expected in the streets and the parks of Chicago for next week's most of them to protest the U.S role in the war in Gaza. But officials are concerned about the po-
tential for a more embarrassing spectacle: prime-time disruptions spectacle. prime-til
inside the arena itsel About 30 uncommitted dele gatestrepresenting the Democratic primary voters who opposed
President Biden - largely over what they see as his tilt toward Israel in the war launched after the
Hamas attacks last $O$ ctober Hamas unfettered access to - will have unfettered access to make
their voices heard. State party leaders, led by Lavora Barnes, the chairwoman of the Michigan
Democratic Party, and Ken Martin, the chairman of the Democrat-
ic-Farmer-Labor Party in Minne-ic-Farmer-Labor Party in Minne-
sota, have for months worked to
defuse tensions and head off a defuse tensions and
highpprofile clash.
Those diplomatic efforts, along
with the elevation of Vice President Kamala Harris to replace Mr. Biden as the Democratic nominee,
have yielded progress, people on have yielded progress, people on
both sides said. But as of now, the delegates are still planning to make their presence at the proContinued on Page AI3

ABORTION ACCESS TO BE ON BALLOT IN ARIZONAIN FALL

DEMOCRATS SEE EDGE
Turnout Expected to Rise in a Key Swing State
as Energy Grows

By KATE ZERNIKE
Arizona voters will decide in
November whether to establish a November whether to establish a thitution, a measure that could strongly influence turnout in a
battleground state crucial to the
presidential election and control
of the Senate The Ariz The Arizona Secretary of
State's office said it had certified 577,971 signatures collected by a
coalition of abortion rights groups, 50 percent more than required to put the constitutional
amendment on the ballot in November. It is the largest number of certified signatures for any ballot
measure in state history. A similar question will appear
on the ballo tin Missouri, atter the on the ballot in Missouri, after the
Secretary of State there said on Secretary of State there said on
Tuesday that abortion rights Tuesday that abortion rights
groups had collected 254,871 valid
signatures ace the more than enough to Missouri, the first state to enact antator Supreme Court overturned
Staoe v. Wade in June 2022, could
Rould become the first state where a citi-
zen-sponsored measure turns a near-total ban.
Abortion rights groups have revailed in all seven states where abortion has been put directly to ters in the two years since the
emise of Roe, the 1973 decision that said the United States Constitution protected a right to abo The run of abortion rights suc-
esses has put Republicans and nti-abortion groups on the defen sign" campaigns, filed lawsuits ying to prevent signatures from eing certified, and sponsored for ballot mesures to it hard fre the high court overturned Roe, almost every abortion-relat ballot by the anure had been sponMeasures to establish side. ct abortion rights are already on he November ballot in six other
states: Florida, South Dakota, Colorado, New York, Maryland
and Nevada But only Arizona and evada are seen as presidential battleground states, where Demo rats are hoping that support for bortion rights will drive higher
urnout in their favor. (South Da kota and Missouri are the only two of those states with near-total Continued on Page Als


An Unanticipated Consequence


Of Rising Heat: Melted Medicine


By EMILY Bau
Cloudy insuMelted capsules. Cloudy insu
harmacies say thatDoctors and pharmacists say eir packaging is weather resis cautions when medication "re quires specific temperature con-
rol." But in a study published last year, independent pharmaceuti dangering people's health in an unexpected way: by overheating
Millions of Americans now r ceive their prescription medica-
tions through mail-order shipments, either for convenience or because their health plans require
it. But the temperatures inside the it. But the temperatures inside the
cargo areas of delivery trucks can
reach 150 degrees Fahrenheit in the summer, according to drivers - far exceeding the range of 68 to 77 degrees recommended by
national organization that ata-logging thermometers inhat the packages had spent more han two-thirds of their transit time outside the appropriate temhipping method, carrier, or sea Extreme temperatures can alter the components in many medito the thyroid replacement drug standards for drug handling



Fixing Climate: Here's the Dirt An Australian start-up is hoping fungi
can pull carbon dioxide from the air and

Bangladeshi Students Step In The young protesters who felled an
autocrat are now acting as cabinet ninisters and traffic cops.

National A12-19

Democrats Pick Familiar Face Representative Jason Crow, seen as a
leader on national security, is the parteader on national security, is the pargating the Trump shooting.

Kennedy Off New York Ballot A judge ruled that the independent
candidate had useda asham" address to candidate had used a "sham"
claim residesess to in the state.
PAGE Als

SPORTS B6-10

New Twist in Revoked Medal The head of a panel that took away
Jordan Chiles's olympic bronze has Jordan Chiles's olympic bronze has


Lobster Roll Rivalry Whether you favor the buttered Con-
necticutstyle or the Maine rolls with necticut-style or the Maine rolls with
mayo, summer is your season. PAGE

No Hurry for Robot Waiters For now, at least, diners seem to prefer
the human tourh over whatever robotic
helpers can bring to the table. PAGE DI

BUSINESS B1-5
Key to China's Tech Prowess The nation's research discoveries in
fields like battery chemistry crucial to fields like battery chemistry, crucial to
its domination of the electric vehicle industry, can be traced back to its em-
Starbucks Ousts Its C.E.O. The coffee giant, facing slowing sales, a slumping stock and agitation from
activist investors, replaced its leader activist investors, replaced its leader of
just over a year with the chief executive just over a year with the chief executive
of Chipotle, Brian Niccol. PAGE B1

OPINION A22-23
Tressie McMillan Cottom PAGE A22
