===== PAGE 0 =====
CAUCHT DOPING,
STLLL SWIMMING
Chinese Athletes Failed More Than One Test

By MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT and TARIQ PANJA
After the revelation in April that 23 elite Chinese swimmers had
tested positive for a banned substance months before the last
Summer Olympic Games, China and the global antidoping author$y$ vigorously defended their de the Games in 2021 . The swim-
mers, they insisted, had not been mers, they insisted, had not been
doping.
But China and the antidoping author ity were both aware that three of those 23 swimmers had tested positive several years earier for a
different performance-enhancing
drug and had escaped being publicly identified and suspended in that case as well, according to a
secret report reviewed by The secret report re
New York Times.
In both instances, Chin claimed that the swimmers ha substances, an explanation
viewed with considerable skepti cism by some antidoping experts.
The two incidents add to longthletes about what they see as pattern of Chinese doping and the
unwillingness or inability of th global authority, the World AntiToping Agency, to deal with it. vealed to have tested positive ear lier, in 2016 and 2017 , were no ordi
nary swimmers: Two would go on to win gold medals at the Toky Olympic Games in 2021, and the All three are expected to contend

Antidoping experts say that Chinese officials and WADA had
abided by existing rules with both sets of positive tests, the athlete
would have been publicly identified and subject to further scrufied from the 2021 Olympics, and possibly the Games that open in Paris next month. "Athletes we have spoken to are tem and WADA," said Ro Koehler, the director general of
Global Athlete, a group working for athletes' rights. "Athletes are rulest o a T, but yet the very orga-
nization holding them accountnization holding them accou
Continued on Page 27

Kicking Up Their Heels, and Social Media Fame by edgar sANDoval Flea Market Spawns $\begin{gathered}\text { forms from a shopping mecca } \\ \text { into a one-of-a-kind dance hall }\end{gathered}$ By EDGAR SANDOVAL
ALAMO, Texas - The punish- $\quad$ Flea Market Spawns $\begin{gathered}\text { intho ane-ol-a-ks spread across } \\ \text { wg heat of late spring does noth- }\end{gathered}$ ALAMO, Texas - The punish-
ing heat of late spring does nothing to keep the crowds from
descending on La pulga de

found at the local Walmart: spir pand an elaborate spiral of
papaly thinly sliced potatoes on a stick; the fragrant roasted corn cobs
known as elotes asados; oversiz known as elotes asados;
statues of the Virgin of Guadalupe; piñatas that don't
quite resemble the Disney rinquite resemble the Disney prin-
cesses they are supposed to cesses they
represent.

Dancing Sensations For as long as anyone can
emember, pulgas - Spanish fo eas - have been part of the fabric of El Valle, as the area is
known to the large Spanishspeaking population in this part of Texas, a slice of Mexico just
north of the border. This is never north of the border. This is never when the market in Alamo trans-

This is mainly because of the who began showing up for
Alamo's weekend dance
noons and found themselves noons and found themselves
turning into internet celebrities.
Alocal electrician known as El Alocal electrician known as
Divino Colombiano, the Divine Colombian, twirls in a pair of tight blue jeans and ruby-red
six-inch heels. A woman with lime-green feathers around her
neck pushes a wheelchair onto neck pushes a wheelchair onto
the floor. In it is her mother, La the floor. In it is her mother, La
Reynita de Oro, the Small Gold Queen, who waves her arms, festooned with gold bracelets,
the music swells, And then the music swells. And then
here's the construction work known as El Bronco because of
know the his resemblance to the lead sing Continued on Page 16


Reclaiming Tribal Lands
Native American groups see hope in small property transfers in California's Owens Valley. Page 13.

Gazans Voice \\ Their Distress \\ Under Hamas

Risking Retribution in Group's Stranglehold \\ By RAJA ABDULRAHIM

JERUSALEM
he Hamas-led was unfolding, many Palestinians took to the streets of Gaza to cele-
brate what they likened to a prison break and saw as the sudden humiliation of an occupier.
But it was just a temporary boost for Hamas, whose support
among Gazans has been low for some time. And as the Israeli onslaught has brought widespread
devastation and tens of thousands devastation and tens of thousands
of deaths, the group and its lead-
ers have remained broadly unpopers have remained broadly unpop-
ular in the enclave. More Gazans have even been willing to speak
out against Hamas, risking retriout again
bution.
In inter
In interviews with nearly a doz
en Gaza residents in recent months, a number of them said they held Hamas responsible for
starting the war and helping to starting the war and helping to
bring death and destruction upon them, even as they blame Israel
first and foremost. first and foremost
One Gazan, Ra One Gazan, Raed al-Kelani, 47,
said Hamas always acts in its own said Hamas
interests.
"It started Oct. 7 , and it wants to end it on its own terms," said Mr
al-Kelani, who worked as a civil al-Kelani, who worked as a civil
servant for the former Palestinian Authority government in Gaza,
which was run by a rival faction to which was run by a rival faction to
Hamas before Hamas seized control of the territory in 2007. "But time is ticking with no po-
tential hope of ending this," he tential hope of ending this," he
added. Mr. al-Kelani now makes added. Mr. al-Kelani now makes
meals and distributes food aid in "Hamas is still seeking its slice of power," he said. "Hamas does not tree it climbed."
Some of the Gazans who spoke to The New York Times said that Hamas knew it would be starting would cause heavy civilian casualties, but that it did not provide any food, water or shelter to help
people survive it. Hamas leaders

Continued on Page 9

Marquee Primary for Democrats

Is Shaped by Tensions Over Gaza
By nicholas fandos
Representative Alexandria
Ocasio-Cortez of New York has ace, class and ideology in
the heart of a presidential election Ocasio-Cortez of New York has the
declared the race her most press- year. ing electoral priority. Senator Bernie Sanders of Vermont is slated to join her for a pre-election
rally in the Bronx. And a powerful rally in the Bronx. And a powerful
pro-Israel lobby working for the
other side has already shattered other side has already shattered
spending records. The House primary between Representative Jamaal Bowman, a left-wing Democratic darling,
and George Latimer, a more moderate challenger, was always expected to be a marquee showcase
of their party's divisions over the Israel-Hamas war.
But with early
But with early voting under-
way, the June 25 contest in New York has exploded into a prowy
war for the war for the Democratic Party's fu-
ture, tearing open old wounds

TRUMP RESISTERS DRAFT PLAYBOOK IN CASE HE WINS

A GROWING COALITION
Abortion Pill Stockpiles and Legal Pushback Are Among Tactics

This article is by Charlie Savage,
Reid J. Epstein, Maggie Haberman
and Jonathan Swan. and Jonathan Swan. Opponents of Donald J. Trump
are drafting potential lawsuits in are drafting potential lawsuits in
case he is elected in November and carries out mass deporta-
tions, as he has vowed. One group
has hired a new auditor to withhas hired a new auditor to with-
stand any attempt by a second
Trump administration to unleash Trump administration to unleash
the Internal Revenue Service on the Internal Revenue Service on
them. Democratic-run state governments are even
abortion medication A sprawling network of Demo
cratic officials cratic officials, progressive activ-
ists, watchdog grouss and ec-Rists, watchdog groups and ex-Re-
publicans has been taking extraordinary steps to prepare for a potential second Trump presiden-
cy, drawn together by the fear that Mr. Trump's return to powe
would pose a grave threat not just to their agenda but to American democracy itself. Trump has made clear that limits of our system," said Joann Lydgate, the chief executive o States United Democracy Center,
a nonpartisan democracy watchdog organization that works with state officials in both parties "What we're stan
tremely dark." reme court on Thursday rejected an attempt to abiry federal approval of the fear a new Trump administratio could rescind the approval or use a
criminalize sentury lines. The Democratic governor of
Washington State, Jay Inslee, said he had secured a large enough supply of mifepristone pills to pre-
serve access for women in his Continued on Page 18

On one side, nearly the entire lo On one side, nearly the entire locluding Mr. Sanders's 2016 rival Hillary Clinton, has lined up be County executive. So has the
American Israel Public Affairs Committee, a pro-Israel lobby that as already spent $\$ 12$ million more than any other race in its his
tory - to try to defeat Mr. Bowan over his criticism of Israel. On the other side, Ms. Ocasio Couse's left-wing "squad" and heir progressive coalition are unertaking a desperate rescue mis leveling increasingly personal at Continued on Page 20

Opposition to Venezuela's Autocrats Gains a New Symbol: 'Freedom Empanadas'
 This article is by Isayen Herrera,
Julie Turkewitz and Sheyla Urdaneta. GUÁrICO, Venezuela - A car
pulled up recently outside a modest restaurant in the state of
Guárico in Venezuela's sprawling savanna. The driver shouted from $\begin{array}{ll}\text { Guárico in Venezuela’s sprawling } & \text { all outraged," he told her. } \\ \text { savanna. The driver shouted from } \\ \text { behind the wheel: "Are you the }\end{array} \quad \begin{array}{ll}\text { Cerina and her sister Elys } \\ \text { Hernandez have emerged as un- }\end{array}$
ompetitive election in years. Their transgression? Selling 14
breakfasts and a handful of em panadas to the country's leading
opposition figure. The governopposition figure. The govern
ment's response came just hour later - an order forcing the si
their business.
Their case was shared widely
on the internet, turning them into symbols of defiance for Venezue-
ans tired of the country's authoritarian leaders. (The sisters have since gained a large online follow-
ing well beyond Venezuela and ing well beyond venezuela and
have rebranded their products as
"freedom empanadas.")

But their business is just one of
everal that have felt the strong averal that have felt the strong everyday services to Pres nt Nicolás Maduro's main polit cal oppo
chado. Ms. Machado, a former legisl and longtime critic of Mr. MaContinued on Page

INTERNATIONAL 4-12
French Protest the Far Right new left-wing coalition is calling on demonstrators to stop Marine Le Pen's National Rally party from taking powe

A 2022 Ukraine-Russia Deal? With the two locked in their third year
of all-out war, documents show that early negotiations explored peace


It's Not Just Russia


China, while not invited to the G7 sum mit, was reerrred to 28 times, almost
always as a malign force, in the final
